Internet of Things in Smart Homes.
What is a smart home?
At least when I was growing up,
you're considered smart if you owned
a home, but increasingly homes are getting
networked these days with
all kinds of smart devices.
So, you have your house and
let's look at devices in your house.
You're trying to minimize the bills
you pay for heating, electricity.
You want your home to be safe, at the same
time you want all the convenience like
delivery connected to some sort of
grocery store, things like that.
So let's start with
the humble thermostat right?
Typically you set it to some temperature,
forget about it, it does this bang,
bang control.
If it's below it, it heats it up,
if it's below or wants it up, whatever.
One of the devices, of course,
the light bulb, right,
I have to bring the light bulb.
Smart lighting, if dawn dusk turn
off on for landscape, et cetera.
The fridge.
Right now you sit in front of your TV,
in fact I have to now delete
the recordings in my TV.
It's much easier to do
it via my phone because
that interface to the TV remote is so
clunky.
So I pull up my app on my phone,
select, and boom, deleted.
So you're not going to be very far from
the future where you're gonna be sitting
on your phone looking at all
the contents of your fridge.
Hey, I got milk, I got butter, and
if you're obsessed with that like
I'm obsessed with my six pack.
I'm not talking about my abs,
but the six pack in the fridge.
I want to make sure I got enough there.
Tied to some delivery service,
Amazon or when you run short,
tie it to a recipe app.
So the fridge is being attacked, so you
don't have to run to the grocery store.
Come on, think about it.
The goal is to make us as
lazy as possible, right?
We never have to leave the couch,
so we can keep watching TV.
We don't have to do all this mundane
stuff, should be taken care of by drones.
What's next?
Surveillance.
This is important, too.
You have a little kid,
you got some nanny taking care of it,
you want to remotely watch how your
nanny's performing, or you got
your teen kids alone and you're wondering,
hey, what the hell are they doing now?
You wanna tune in to
see what they're doing.
So surveillance and also,
nothing is stolen, that's a draw.
That's an important thing.
And central to all of this is going
to be a phone or mobile platform.
All this, you're going to access
these services through your phone.
Being able to view videos,
what's my temperature at,
or what's in my fridge, or am I going
to control these lights from my phone.
It's kinda going to become
your remote control to all
the devices you track with your life.
So, before I move further,
I want to show you this little video
before I talk about a thermostat
example where they control the temp
of the glass through a voltage,
so it can go from transparent to
semitransparent or
opaque through a voltage applied to them.
So watch this little video,
it's a short 20
second clip, and
then we'll see you
in the next slide.
So that was pretty cool, right?
How you can control the glass
tint through a voltage.
Now let's come back to our house example.
You have your thermostat, it's no longer
a dumb thermostat, this is very smart,
it can control various
things in your house.
And imagine this thermostat knows
the sun pattern in your house.
The sun goes, the path it takes and what
time of the day which windows are exposed.
And this thermostat can electronically
tint your windows based on
time of the day, you don't have to do
anything, so your house doesn't cook.
Typically if you have lots of glass
windows facing toward southwest,
you know your house tends to heat up.
So, that is one example.
These can be programmed and
you can in fact do it remotely,
too with your phone, you can have
access to tinting your window and
your imagination is the limit
what you can do with it.
And let's keep going here.
The weather right?
Your thermostat will become aware of your
weather prediction for the next week and
if it gets a little humid it can take
in the air conditioner to bring down
the humidity or if you go to bed it
can turn down the temperature so
all these are programmable
through this thermostat.
By the way, there are companies doing
it on commercial scale already, so
these are not like some fancy concepts.
Maybe a thermostats wear off your
calendar, your vacation calendar.
Let's say you come back from vacation,
your plane hits, lands, and you're turned
off, or turned down your water heater
because it's in vacation mode.
And when, by the time you get
home you want it to be hot.
And the thermostat kicks it up,
oh, like line six 30.
Kick it up, and you can do those things.
And here again, the center to
all this is going to be a phone.
You can control remotely,
monitor all this through your phone.
All it requires is remote IP access so
you're thermostat will have an IP address.
You can remotely monitor
events control events.
Our next example we're going to talk
about in smart home is surveillance.
This is very popular these days.
People are asking demanding remotely able
to monitor the homes what's going on.
So popular examples is motion detection.
You go on vacation you want to make sure
there's no one in the house if you sense
a movement you want to be alerted.
Or if some windows are being opened when
it's shut you want to get notification.
This is typically how the current dumb,
monitoring systems work.
Then they, hear a doorbell ring ding dong.
You wonder who's there.
And I was recently came
across this company's doing
if someone rings your doorbell,
you'll hear it on your phone.
You'll hear someone ringing
your doorbell on your phone.
And you can,it seems a lot of the thefts
don't happen mostly at night.
But someone tries to ring your doorbell
and they think that no one's home.
Let's go in there.
So this one alerts you on your phone,
your doorbell rings, and
then you can talk to that person.
It doesn't matter if you're home or
somewhere else.
You start answering it, who's there.
You can be vacationing in Hawaii and
someone's ringing your doorbell in Idaho.
You can pretend somebody's home, and they
hear it through the speaker in the front.
I always cringe when my doorbell rings and
wonder if its one of those people come
to tell me like how my religion is bad.
I should convert to what
they tell me is good.
And that's when I want to kind of hit
a button, like a switch on the phone.
The bottom opens,
they fall into a shark tank.
So you can come up with your own creative
surveillance video, I mean applications.
Once again,
needless to say your phone is key.
Your phone is going to
be central to all this.
You want access to all this
surveillance concepts.
And I'm hoping in this course you can
build some cool surveillance capstone
projects.
In fact, we're going to demonstrate
how to use the ultrasonic sensor,
motion detector.
And it's not going to be difficult to
put something together where you can
do some motion, take some photos
that sends it to you as an MMS.
So I hope you come up with some creative,
cool applications we can showcase.
That's Smart Homes.
See you in Automotive next.